all right now spokesman for the alasan
Brigade that's the military wing of
Hamas is making a statement the
for our Fighters will continue to Shell
the strongholds of the enemy covered by
artillery and
missile barrage the last of which was
targeting
D where enemy positions in the usurped
lands were targeted with 100 missiles
only in
onedot under the AL AA typhoon operation
we call on our fellow Palestinians to
engage in the affair this will be
recorded by Golden letters in history it
is our journey as Martyrs and we will be
rewarded with
Victory well joining me now is Tam kmut
a Gaza native and professor of public
public policy at the Doha Institute for
graduate studies thank you so much for
coming in thank you Sam for those
perhaps who are not familiar with the
background of this explain to us the the
background to this as long as you have
root causes what the UN several un
officials call root causes occupation
Siege going on is it just only a
question of time before we see these
repeated cycles of conflict uh of course
Sammy that's a very good question and I
have to to emphasize that the root
causes of this uh uh conflict remains
and still it's the continuation of the
Israeli military occupation and apart
system in place in Palestine that's the
key main uh root cause of course there
are also another important factual U uh
reasons for this uh among of which is
that the dead and clinically dead and
dysfunctional peace of process and the
international community's absence from
really getting it alive back on the
stage but why now Tamar why we
understand the background situation but
why do we see this very massive
unprecedented move by Hamas outside of
Gaza so I I I think there are a couple
of good reasons for this first of all
Hamas is both a party in governance and
also it's a resistance movement at the
same time so it's it's taking care of of
the livelihood of 2.2 million
Palestinians is living under the ban
isolated Gaza Strip so governance comes
with resp responsibilities and and from
the social economic perspective in the
Gaza Strip things are very bad from all
fronts uh secondly uh Hamas wants to
remain uh or to send a message to um the
International Community and also to
Israel and the Arab world and especially
normalizing countries that that I was
going to say is this tied to the wave
that was going on in our countries hey
let's make peace explain so basically
over the
last particularly over the last year
with this very right-wing fanatic
government in isn't now there have been
many attempts by the Israelis to
fragment and divide the Palestinian
movement especially the street the
public movement correct uh the PA is
very weak it's isolated from one side
then you have Hamas watching and
observing and Israel thinks that Hamas
is there isolated in Gaza with its own
troubles and its own challenges to
govern but Hamas says no I'm still here
I'm a key relevant party
and you are not going to be able to
isolate me and play this divide and
conquer politics so this comes number
one as one of the strategies for Hamas
to say I am relevant I'm here secondly
Hamas is sending a key strategic message
to normalizing Arab states and also to
normalization attempts with the PA as
well being part of it more or less
despite to be honest I mean the PA also
has a clear position about normalization
that normalization will not bring any
security to Israel if Israel cannot
protect itself as the key Hamas leader
said yesterday he said normalization
will not bring security if it's not if
security if Israel cannot protect itself
from Hamas how will it protect other
Arab countries which are flocking for to
Israel to normalize under the pretext of
Israel will bring more security to the
region and be able to defend us as a
collective allies so is the message that
Hamas is trying to send is there will be
no peace without an end to the
occupation and suffering of Palestinians
and we are relevant party that represent
that resistance and can ignore it as
well is there something to talk about in
terms of the Dynamics the internal
Palestinian Dynamics here that Hamas is
sending a message about that whether
it's the the PA whether it's the rise of
new groups like The Lion's
Den yes yes of course Hamas is more or
less laying the foundation of of of a
new resistance approach post Oslo post
Oso and it says that no matter what
Israel can do I mean no matter how
powerful is Israel with all its military
Arnel and and its control of land and
sea and air as long as Palestinians are
there we will resist by all means and
surprisingly the most impoverished
isolated neglected area in the world
Gaza Strip the fact that Hamas has
managed to do this military operation or
to initiate this war on Israel despite
all the marginalization and the Embargo
imposed on the Gaz it tells you a
message this is a people Palestinians
are people who want freedom they are at
any cost willing to to die to offer
whatever they have to live free and
that's that's a big message for Israel
also you cannot keep occupation